you know what they call a quarter
pounder with cheese they don't call it a
quarter pounder with cheese they get the
metric system it was on the fucker
quarter hands and what do they call it
they call it the Royale which royalty
that's
hey guys it's Ryan and today I have a
very special video for you on pulp
fiction
it's my all-time favorite movie by a
long shot and I gotta say I really enjoy
making this because as we all know
Tarantino movies are also finely tuned
it's literally impossible to catch every
little reference and detail but I tried
to do just that
alright here are 50 facts you didn't
know about pulp fiction at the very
beginning of the overdose scene Mia is
wearing Vincent's coat moments later she
goes to light a cigarette and is no
longer wearing it but the coat magically
appears back on her once the cigarette
is lit no real answer is given in the
film but Tarantino revealed that butch
is the one who keyed Vincent's car
looking at something for him and if you
didn't know a palooka is a boxer who
isn't very good or a boxer who takes a
dive for money
Teddy sometimes you see a fighter with a
glass chin this one has a glass glove
his left glove gets hit watch the first
one goes now that's not the net no other
one hits two showed up sorry
he's paid has a glass shoulder Vincent
vega's 1964 Chevelle Malibu belonged to
Tarantino and was stolen during
production in the movie the car didn't
resurface until 2013 when a cop noticed
two teenagers stripping a car after
arresting them and researching the car
he discovered the car's VIN number had
been altered and the vehicle was stolen
the owner who had recently purchased the
car was unaware that it was stolen and
that its rightful owner
was Quentin Tarantino a range of
different actresses were considered for
the part of Mia Wallace including
Isabella Rossellini meg Ryan Daryl
Hannah Joan Cusack and Michelle Pfeiffer
probably the most interesting candidate
was Julia louis-dreyfus who according to
her agent at the time couldn't take the
role because of her commitment to
Seinfeld
jewels iconic that motherfucker wallet
belonged to Tarantino and of course was
a reference to the theme song from shaft
Tarantino gave the wallet to
auxins character Jules and amazingly six
years later samuel l.jackson went on to
star in the sequel the shop concealed
weapon Ice Man goeth goeth for a long
time
Tarantino considered playing the role of
lands but chose to play the character of
Jimmy Dimmick because he wanted to be
behind the camera during Mia's overdose
scene all right
I ain't certain now look you bought here
and that means that you're gonna give it
a thought the day that I Brienne odium
bitch to your house then I give it a
shot
when Mia Wallace orders her five dollar
shake at Jackrabbit slims the waiter
asks her handing with that shake Martin
and Louis are Amos and Andy he is
referring to the comedy duo of Dean
Martin and Jerry Lewis two white guys
and the Amos and Andy show two black
eyes basically he's asking her if she'd
like it chocolate or vanilla the various
weapons that butch considers for
carrying out his revenge in the pawn
shop are all nods to other films the
hammer is from Friday the 13th part to
the bat comes from walking tall the
chainsaw is of course a reference to the
Texas Chainsaw Massacre
and finally the samurai sword is from
lightening swords of death at first
uma Thurman turned down the role of Mia
Wallace but Quentin Tarantino was so
desperate for her to play the role he
read her the script over the phone and
eventually convinced her to take it
Quentin Tarantino wrote the character of
Jules specifically for samuel l.jackson
after he missed out on a role in
Reservoir Dogs but the role was nearly
given to Paul Calderon after a great
audition hearing this Jackson flew to
Los Angeles and auditioned again in
order to secure the role Calderon ended
up with a small role in pulp fiction as
Paul - my food my mouth closed laughter
fucking jokes and that's it hey my name
is Paul
in the movies closing credits the
manager of the coffee shop is credited
just as coffee shop it was actually
because Tim Roth's character holds a gun
to the managers head and says the
manager replies before Roth cuts him off
and starts screaming again Quentin
Tarantino often gives a nod to his home
state of Tennessee in his films with
pulp fiction being no different as butch
arranged to meet his connection in
Knoxville Tennessee they write things a
couple days we get that in Knoxville one
of the more interesting characters in my
opinion that we learned very little
about is Butch's cab drivers Esmeralda
Villalobos played by Angela Jones
Esmeralda's character is actually based
on the character from a short film
called curdled that Jones did in 1991
about a Colombian immigrant who cleans
up after murders hence Esmeralda's
fascination with homicides Tarantino saw
the short and incorporated her into the
pulp fiction universe the first person
I've ever met with cute somebody Pam
Grier auditioned for a role in pulp
fiction as Lance's wife Jodi and
although Tarantino was a fan of Grier he
didn't cast her as he didn't believe
that she could get pushed around the way
the character does but he later wrote
Jackie Browns character specifically for
Grier this fact is pretty widely known
but Mia's pilot show has a very familiar
premise to Kill Bill it was a bond one
Somerset O'Neil she was a leader
the Japanese Fox was a kung-fu master
the black girl was a demolition expert
French Fox's speciality was sex
character I played Raven McCoy her
background was she grew up raised by
circus
former's according the show she was a
deadliest woman in the world
with a knife tarantino initially wanted
the song my Sharona by the knack to be
played in the infamous anal rape scene
[Music]
unfortunately reality bites the film
about post-grad anguish also wanted the
rights so Tarantino instead chose
Comanche by the rebels Karin Rahman the
film's music supervisor said that
Tarantino's mom used to listen to Chuck
Berry's you can never tell all the time
when she was pregnant with him it's the
song playing during the dance contest at
Jackrabbit slims the role of Vincent
Vega was originally written for Michael
Madsen who played Vic Vega and Reservoir
Dogs instead Madsen opted to play Virgil
herb and Wyatt earth Tarantino then made
the controversial choice of casting John
Travolta who was paid less than 150 K
but went on to receive an Oscar
nomination for Best Actor we can give a
guy a foot massage fuck you
the scene where Vince stabs Mia with the
adrenaline shot was actually filmed in
Reverse by having Travolta pull the
needle out instead of stabbing it in
Tarantino's recovering addict friends
helped Travolta faina heroin high by
instructing him to get drunk on tequila
and take a hot bath the original teaser
poster was recalled by Miramax because
they didn't have the rights to use the
Lucky Strike cigarettes and the book the
harlot and the heart the name honey
bunny came from Linda Chen who typed up
Tarantino's handwritten script for pulp
fiction in lieu of payment
she asked Tarantino to watch her pet
rabbit when she went on location but
Tarantino wouldn't do it and when the
rabbit later died he named Amanda
plumbers character after Chen's pet in a
shared bit of coincidence
once your Volta went to Tarantino's loss
Angela
apartment to look at the script he
realized that he used to live in that
exact same apartment chronologically
Fabiana and Butch riding away on a
motorcycle is the film's final scene but
the sound of the motorcycle is actually
the first sound in the film forget it
it's too risky steve buscemi and Kathy
Griffin both have small cameos Buscemi
plays the Buddy Holly waiter and Griffin
is a witness to Butch's hit-and-run of
Marcellus Wallace if you need someone to
go to court I would be glad to come okay
that guy was a drunken maniac he hit you
I'm gonna crush him that car
one of the most iconic scenes in the
movie is when Vincent is rushing Mia
Wallace over to Lance's house after her
overdose when Vincent calls Lance from
his cell
Lance is watching TV and eating a bowl
of fruit brute the cereal was part of
General Mills monster cereals group
along with yummy mummy Boo Berry
Franken berry and Count Chocula fruit
brute is no longer around but it was a
childhood favorite of Tarantino's and
also appears in Reservoir Dogs
whenever Vincent Vega goes to the toilet
something bad happens he emerges at Mia
Wallace's house to find her overdosing
comes out at the restaurant to find a
robbery unfolded and his shot dead by
butch after using his bathroom
[Music]
max Julian was set to play Marcellus
Wallace but absolutely refused to do the
anal rape scene meaning Ving Rhames got
the role instead I damn sight your ass
butch was originally intended as an
up-and-coming boxer with Sylvester
Stallone Matt Dillon and Mickey Rourke
all considered for the role eventually
Tarantino amended the character and
offered it to Bruce Willis who
previously wanted to play Vincent when
butch shoots Vincent Vega
it isn't Vince's gun that's been left on
the table as Jules had already retired
by this point Marcellus Wallace is
staking out Butch's house with Benson
leaving his gun there while going to get
coffee and donuts Marcellus and Mia
Wallace never speak to each other on
screen despite being husband and wife
one theme throughout the film is guns
not being used as intended a close-range
gunshot miraculously mrs. Jules Vince
accidentally shoots Marvin in the face
butch shoots Vincent with the gun that
was meant to kill him and at the end of
the film it is Jules gun that prevents
violence in the coffee shop John
Travolta was known for his dance moves
prior to Pulp Fiction with his roles in
Saturday Night Fever and grease but his
dance number with uma Thurman at
Jackrabbit slims was inspired by the
film's band a apart and federico
fellini's eight and a half
the latter features a very 1960s dance
routine by Barbara Steele and Mario
pursue the word fuck is used to 265
times in the movie Tarantino wanted
Jules Tov a giant afro but a prop master
on set obtained several afro wigs and
one jheri curl wig samuel l.jackson
tried on the jheri-curl wood and both he
and Tarantino liked it so much
they stuck with it Saturday Night Live's
Julia Sweeney might have had a minor
role in the film as Raquel the junkyard
owners daughter but at the time the
movie was being made
she was actually married to Stephen
Hibbert who believe it or not played the
game the couple later divorced but
Hibbert went on to work as a writer for
MADtv and Boy Meets World the t-shirt
that Jimmy is wearing bears the logo of
Orbitz an alternative detroit newspaper
Tarantino picked up the shirt while
doing an interview with the paper during
promotion for Reservoir Dogs at the end
of pulp fiction Jules says that he wants
to become a drifter in Kill Bill Vol 2
samuel l.jackson appears as a piano
playing drifter called Rufus when Bruce
Willis is about to escape the pawnshop
he picks up jet skis and on the keyring
is the letter Z after he decides to turn
around he sees a neon sign that spells
out Killians red but as some of the
letters are not illuminated it reads
kill ed combine that with the Z on the
keyring and you get kills ed Butch's
boxing match is billed as battle of the
Titans with fights between Coolidge
versus Wilson and Vossler versus
Martinez these are all fictional boxing
matches with the first being a reference
to US presidents Calvin Coolidge and
Woodrow Wilson the second refers to
Russell Vossler and Jerry Martinez two
of Tarantino's friends from when he
worked at a video store while almost
everyone loved Pulp Fiction 1996
Republican presidential candidate Bob
Dole was not in that group in fact it's
probably fair to say that he hated
Tarantino movies in general in 1995 he
accused the movie industry of peddling
nightmares of depravity Dole criticized
true romance and Natural Born Killers
for which Tarantino wrote the
screenplays for and accused Pope Fiction
of promoting a romance of heroin
pulp fiction cost a relatively modest
eight million dollars to make with over
five million going towards actor
salaries amazingly the film went on to
make over two hundred ten million
dollars the character of Trudi wears a
t-shirt of Irish rock band the frames
this is because she appeared alongside
the frames lead singer Glen Hansard in
the commitments and promised that she
wear the t-shirt in Pulp Fiction if she
got the part the scenes when Tarantino
plays Jimmy Dimmick are directed by
uncredited Robert Rodriguez in a deleted
scene Vincent Vega tells Mia and he's
been fantasizing about being beaten up
by Emma Peel from the Avengers uma
Thurman later played Emma Peel in the
1998 film there have been countless
spoofs and mashups of the film over the
years
[Music]
not for them but one of the most
innovative came in 2011 when YouTube
user crime rider 95 recut the film so
that it played out in chronological
order unfortunately the folks at Miramax
had it taken down
but while it was up viewers were able to
watch the movie begin with the watch
story and not the diner robbery Daniel
day-lewis was famously overlooked for
the role of Vincent and Gary Oldman was
originally favored for the role of Lance
after portraying a similar character in
true romance during an interview with
Phil Lamarr who played Marvin he
disclosed the fact that it was actually
his idea to have his character get shot
in the face by Vincent in Tarantino
screenplay
Marvin was accidentally shot in the
throat and didn't die immediately
Vincent and Jules knowing that Marvin
would die slowly and painfully decide to
put him out of his misery and shoot him
in the head Lamarr suggested to
Tarantino that it would turn the
audience against Jules and Vincent and
that it will be funnier to kill him with
an accidental shot to the face
- which Tarantino agreed the white Honda
Civic that butch uses to plow into
Marcellus Wallace is also used by Jackie
and Jackie Brown and is in Kill Bill Vol
- Marsellus Wallace's head turned
towards Butch is a reference to the
Hitchcock film psycho when Bing Raines
was shaving his head for the role he
accidentally cut the back of his neck
this prompted Tarantino to open the
scene of him and Butch with the close-up
on the band-aid Tarantino liked the idea
of focusing on the band-aid rather than
Marcellus his face because it
accentuated the character's mercurial
nature also the band-aid has heavily
contributed to the fan theory that the
briefcase contains Marsellus Wallace's
soul
because when someone sells their soul to
the devil their soul is removed from the
back of their head the exact spot where
Wallace has the band-aid all right so if
you made it all the way through to the
end thank you so much for watching and
you know these videos take a lot of time
to produce so if you could leave a like
and subscribe
we'll be eternally grateful all right
more good stuff coming soon keep an eye
out for it